CMPT 353 Exercise 2 Answers
Student: Michael Kuby
Student ID: 301562996

1.  In the hint above, what is the result of the calculation:
    data['timestamp']*fit.slope + fit.intercept? What is the type, and describe the values.

Answer:

The function is a linear regression function of the form y = mx + b where,

    y is the predicted value in the form of a rating;

    m is the slope of the linear regression model;

    x is the data['timestamp'] value at a point in numerical form;

    b is the expected value of y when x = 0, which is the expected rating when 
        the dog rater first started rating dogs.

Since each value of the series data['timestamp'] has been converted to an integer value by the
.to_timestamp function, this linear regression equation allows us to produce predicted rating values
for the dogs based on when the tweet was posted. For example, when dogs were first rated in 2016 (at
the start of our data), the expected rating was 10.68/10 according to our data. By May of 2019 the
expected rating for each dog (the value of y in our model) was 14.31.

2.  In the same hint, why does this produce a fit line on the graph? Why are the 
    created_at values and timestamp values paired correctly to make points on the plot?

Answer:

As described in the answer to question 1, scipy.stats.linregress has created a linear regression
model of our data, supplying us with a slope and y intercept we can use to predict rating values based
on the tweet date. Converting datetime objects to numerical form supplies us with a numerical value 
of x that we can then use in the linear regression model (a necessary step since a datetime object can clearly not be 
operated on using numerical operators). This produces a fit line on the graph because this is 
precisely what a linear regression model does: gives us predicted values of y based on a slope, y intercept, 
and supplied value for x.

The linear regression model pairs the created_at values and timestamp values correctly to make points on the plot
since the conversion between datetime objects and numerical form is a bijection; they are in a sense identical
values represented by different types. And since they are identical, their relationship to y (the ranking) is 
also identical. Hence, when plotted, the relationship from timestamp --> rating mirrors the 
datetime --> rating relationship, since fundamentally it is identical.